README.md, before:

# Overview

go_logger is a service log that spawns an agent go-routine to write and manage the log file. This is intended to be used in web or other services that cannot block waiting for logging I/O. Logs can be a file or can be network/remote. The object simply needs to conform to io.Writer and my ReOpener interfaces.

# Example

```go
package main

import (	
     "github.com/wojnosystems/go_logger"
     "github.com/wojnosystems/go_reopen"
     "os"
 )

func main() {
	f, err := go_reopen.OpenFile("/var/log/my.log", os.O_CREATE | os.O_APPEND | os.O_WRONLY, 0600)
    if err != nil {
        panic(err)	 
	}
	log := go_logger.NewServiceAgentDefaults(f, "my-service", 10)
	
	log.Log("ERROR", go_logger.NewBase(`this is my log message`), 0)
	
	// perform a log rotation
	_ = log.ReOpen()
	// log file rotation is asynchronous. It's possible that a 
	// log write that occurs after this line will appear in the 
	// old log and not the new log
	
	log.Log("INFO", go_logger.NewBase(`this is a message with extra data`).StreamData("extra_data", "my data. Accepts interface{}, so you can pass whatever you want into this"), 0)
	
	// Shutdown the logger. This will wait for the logs to finish writing
	err = log.Close()
	if err != nil {
		// some error writing to the logs or closing
		panic(err)
	}
}
```

# Copyright

Copyright © 2019 Chris Wojno. All rights reserved.

No Warranties. Use this software at your own risk.

# License

Attribution 4.0 International https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/

Commit message:

Added a backlog log message that will add log messages to the logger when the backlog has filled up such that logs are now being discarded.
Motioned the buffer reset call to occur when pulling from the pool instead of when saving. THis is safer as it's a single point in the code instead of multiple points. The downside is, now buffers will have reset called for no reason, but the likelihood of re-using buffers is high, so this should add little overhead.

Refactored the code to never block log messages, even if full.

Added a serializer factory method to allow users of this library to specify their own serialization method for messages. The default is still JSON, but you can specify anything, now.

Added additional interface definitions to allow implementing structs a single place to define the basic interface for the Base log messages, which is too convenient to not use, generally.

Updated documentation to include serializerfactories & channel overflow information.

README.md, after:

# Overview

go_logger is a service log that spawns an agent go-routine to write and manage the log file. This is intended to be used in web or other services that cannot block waiting for logging I/O. Logs can be a file or can be network/remote. The object simply needs to conform to io.Writer and my ReOpener interfaces.

# Example

```go
package main

import (	
     "github.com/wojnosystems/go_logger"
     "github.com/wojnosystems/go_reopen"
     "os"
 )

func main() {
	f, err := go_reopen.OpenFile("/var/log/my.log", os.O_CREATE | os.O_APPEND | os.O_WRONLY, 0600)
    if err != nil {
        panic(err)	 
	}
	log := go_logger.NewServiceAgentDefaults(f, "my-service", 10)
	
	log.Log("ERROR", go_logger.NewBase(`this is my log message`), 0)
	
	// perform a log rotation
	_ = log.ReOpen()
	// log file rotation is asynchronous. It's possible that a 
	// log write that occurs after this line will appear in the 
	// old log and not the new log
	
	log.Log("INFO", go_logger.NewBase(`this is a message with extra data`).StreamData("extra_data", "my data. Accepts interface{}, so you can pass whatever you want into this"), 0)
	
	// Shutdown the logger. This will wait for the logs to finish writing
	err = log.Close()
	if err != nil {
		// some error writing to the logs or closing
		panic(err)
	}
}
```

# Operation

When a NewServiceAgent is created, a go-routine is spawned that will perform all of the log writes and file re-opens. Calls to "Log" are guaranteed to never block and thus, writing logs will be fast. Writing to the underlying go_reopen.WriterCloser is always done asynchronously to the caller of Log.

Log messages are sent via a channel to the writer agent. This is called the Backlog (more on this later).

## Custom Messages

There is an interface-type that allows you to specify your own log messages. All log messages are converted to JSON before being written to the log stream.

## Custom Serializer

You can override the serialization strategy (json by default) by specifying a serializationFactory. This method should return an encoder that writes to the provided writer when passed the underlying Serializer object. The serializer type allows implementers to add in custom state to the serializer, if desired.

# The Backlog

Because I'm using channels to communicate with an arbitrary and unknowable number of go-routines with the primary log agent routine, it's possible for this channel to over flow. Because I intend this library to be used in services, rather than blocking, which would be hazardous to a large system, the logger instead lets 1 more message through on a separate channel. The message is a combined message that includes the actual log message as well as a shorter message indicating that the log has overflowed. This is intended to allow ops teams to know when resources are starting to impact visibility.

# Copyright

Copyright © 2019 Chris Wojno. All rights reserved.

No Warranties. Use this software at your own risk.

# License

Attribution 4.0 International https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/
